Remember how we mentioned that Python is
simple and easy to use?
Python makes it easy to express the
fundamental concepts of programming like
data structures and algorithms with
easy to read syntax.
This makes Python a great language to
use to learn programming.
And there are other reasons to pick
Python, too.
Python is super popular in the IT
industry, making it one of the most
common programming languages used
today.
Python isn't new. Its first version was
released by Guido van Rossum back in
1991. Since then, the community that
develops it has grown and the language
has advanced a lot.
Whenever there's a significant change
to the semantics or syntax of the
language, a new major version is
released.
In 2000, Python 2 was released.
In 2008, we got Python 3.
In this course, we'll use Python 3.7,
which came out in 2018.
For many years, Python was considered a
beginner's language and was mostly used
for teaching concepts or writing very
small simple scripts, like in this
course. But in recent years, the
adoption of Python has grown
dramatically. One reason for this is
that the language has become more
powerful. It's also because there's
more tools available in Python for a
growing range of applications.
You can use Python to calculate
statistics, run your e-commerce site,
process images, interact with web
services, and do a whole host of other
tasks. Python is perfect for
automation.
It lets you automate everyday tasks by
writing simple scripts that are easy to
understand and easy to maintain.
That's why Python is the language of
choice for lots of people working in IT
support, system administration, and web
development.
Not only that, but it's also used in
fast-growing areas of IT, like machine
learning or data analytics.
Last but not least, Python is available
for download on a wide variety of
operating systems, like Windows, Linux,
and Mac OS.
And what's more, Python is so popular
in the workplace that if you are
currently working in IT, you've most
likely encountered it already.
And if you're planning a career in IT,
chances are you'll interact with Python
quite a bit. So there's a whole lot of
reasons for why Python is relevant to
today's IT industry.
A large part of programming is learning
through trial and error and asking
questions. So if at any point you get
stuck, don't get discouraged.
Making mistakes helps you improve.
The more you see failure or broken code
as an opportunity to learn, the quicker
you'll master programming.
I remember the first Python script I
ever wrote.
It took a lot of refactoring,
debugging, and testing to get it to
work. I relied on a lot of my teammates
for help and mentorship and wound up
spending more time on Stack Overflow
than actually writing the code.
Thankfully, you don't have to reinvent
the wheel.
There's almost always someone on the
Internet who's trying to do what you're
doing and can help point you in the
right direction when you're stuck.
Sometimes it takes a village.
It's really important to keep in mind
that even experienced programmers may
need to ask a colleague a question from
time to time or look something up on the
Internet. Whether you're a programming
novice or have some experience in
software development, remember, the
best programmers overcome challenges by
seeking help or using other resources.
Once you've completed this program,
you'll be well on your way to
confidently programming in basic
Python.
There's lots of information online that
will help you continue to develop your
programming skills. For example, there
are lots of online courses for specific
programming languages.
You'll find answers to your Python
coding questions in the official Python
documentation. You can use sites like
Stack Overflow to discuss and share with
other developers. And you can ask
questions in our discussion forums.
You can even subscribe to some of the
Python mailing lists to keep in the know
on the latest updates to the language.
You're opening the door to the whole
world of programming, and it's super
exciting to be joining the development
community.
The most important thing to remember is
that you're never alone.
Any questions you may have, any time in
your career, there are resources out
there to help you find the answers you
need.
Wow, that was a lot of information.
Feel free to take a quick break, grab
something to drink, and then head on
over to the supplemental reading to
learn more about Python and the
resources out there to help you learn.